README.md, before:

# quartools

CLI interface for various flows in Quartus software

This is a work in progress to build a CLI interface around Quartus software for FPGA development.

# System requirements

- Quartus Prime. The version used for development is Lite 20.1.1. It may possibly work on other versions.

- Unix like system with GNU make, gtkwave. Tested on Ubuntu 20.04.1, but should work on most Unix like systems that meet the software requirement.

- Might work with Cygwin on Windows. But it has not been tested.

# Installation

- Install Quartus Prime with ModelSim. Make sure that your PATH environment variable has 'bin' directories of both Quartus and ModelSim. For example, if your installation is in /opt, you may want to add something like following to your shell's rc file:

    - export PATH=/opt/intelFPGA_lite/20.1/quartus/bin:/opt/intelFPGA_lite/20.1/modelsim_ase/bin:$PATH

- Some quirks with Quartus that require manual intervention to the installation:

    - The Quartus installation is not required to be in the same login where you do your development. Typically it may be installed as root. Just ensure that appropriate permissions are set. Unfortunately executables under modelsim_ase/bin have strange permissions when you install Quartus i.e. they are not executable by 'other'. You may have to correct them manually (or change the owner of those files).

    - For ModelSim to work you may need to install package libxft2:i386 manually.

- Check out quartools package in a suitable directory. Again, it is not required to be in the same login where you normally work. It's better to keep it under at least a different path from your work directories. Set the environment variable QUARTOOLSDIR pointing to the root directory of the package. For example, export QUARTOOLSDIR=$HOME/programs/quartools if the package was cloned in $HOME/programs.

# Usage

1. Behavioral simulation using ModelSim

    See examples/bsimu.

    For your own programs, just set the SRCS and TOP variables in the Makefile. Both vhdl and verilog sources may be used together in one project and need to be specified in the same variable. vhdl sources must have .vhd extension and verilog sources must have .v extension.

    Run 'make bsimu' to run the simulation

    Use 'gtkwave dump.vcd' to view the waveforms.

1. Compilation

    'make compile' would run the Quartus' 'compile' flow on the TOP module. Rest of the specification is similar to bsimu. Different frameworks may have different notions of the term 'compile' in HDLs. This flow runs the flow literally named as compile in Quartus parlance, using Quartus shell interface.

1. Clean the work area

    Use 'make clean' to get rid of the work area to reclaim space. You may also like to do this if you have renamed or removed your sources that you may have already compiled, to expunge the compiled modules with old name from the work area.

# Wish list

- More flows and configurable options to be added over time - typically in the form of more targets to the makefile. General structure of usage of the package is likely to remain same.

Commit message:

gtkwave added to sys requrements

README.md, after:

# quartools

CLI interface for various flows in Quartus software

This is a work in progress to build a CLI interface around Quartus software for FPGA development.

# System requirements

- Quartus Prime. The version used for development is Lite 20.1.1. It may possibly work on other versions.

- gtkwave (or equivalent) is recommended for waverform (.vcd format) file visualization, if you want to view waverforms.

- Unix like system with GNU make, gtkwave. Tested on Ubuntu 20.04.1, but should work on most Unix like systems that meet the software requirement.

- Might work with Cygwin on Windows. But it has not been tested.

# Installation

- Install Quartus Prime with ModelSim. Make sure that your PATH environment variable has 'bin' directories of both Quartus and ModelSim. For example, if your installation is in /opt, you may want to add something like following to your shell's rc file:

    - export PATH=/opt/intelFPGA_lite/20.1/quartus/bin:/opt/intelFPGA_lite/20.1/modelsim_ase/bin:$PATH

- Some quirks with Quartus that require manual intervention to the installation:

    - The Quartus installation is not required to be in the same login where you do your development. Typically it may be installed as root. Just ensure that appropriate permissions are set. Unfortunately executables under modelsim_ase/bin have strange permissions when you install Quartus i.e. they are not executable by 'other'. You may have to correct them manually (or change the owner of those files).

    - For ModelSim to work you may need to install package libxft2:i386 manually.

- Check out quartools package in a suitable directory. Again, it is not required to be in the same login where you normally work. It's better to keep it under at least a different path from your work directories. Set the environment variable QUARTOOLSDIR pointing to the root directory of the package. For example, export QUARTOOLSDIR=$HOME/programs/quartools if the package was cloned in $HOME/programs.

# Usage

1. Behavioral simulation using ModelSim

    See examples/bsimu.

    For your own programs, just set the SRCS and TOP variables in the Makefile. Both vhdl and verilog sources may be used together in one project and need to be specified in the same variable. vhdl sources must have .vhd extension and verilog sources must have .v extension.

    Run 'make bsimu' to run the simulation

    Use 'gtkwave dump.vcd' to view the waveforms.

1. Compilation

    'make compile' would run the Quartus' 'compile' flow on the TOP module. Rest of the specification is similar to bsimu. Different frameworks may have different notions of the term 'compile' in HDLs. This flow runs the flow literally named as compile in Quartus parlance, using Quartus shell interface.

1. Clean the work area

    Use 'make clean' to get rid of the work area to reclaim space. You may also like to do this if you have renamed or removed your sources that you may have already compiled, to expunge the compiled modules with old name from the work area.

# Wish list

- More flows and configurable options to be added over time - typically in the form of more targets to the makefile. General structure of usage of the package is likely to remain same.
